Studio 10 write up

Your TA's name:



Students in your studio group:

    Name        Student ID (begins with a 4)
	
1. Nikki Wines	437324
2. Marie Warchol 437787
3. Fiona Hon	434944
4. Erin Ettenger 435647
5.
6.



Part A

A1. Why do sad and happy appear as they do? Why is happy indented? What are the parent, left-child, and right-child relationships between happy and sad?
	
	Sad is the left child of the root, Happy is the right child of Sad. They are indented to show to show their l/r relationship

Modify the code in the main method so that some string appears above sad, indented as much as happy.

A2. What string did you use?

		lonely.add("sad");
		lonely.add("happy");
		lonely.add("sleepy"); // "sl" is after "sa" alphabetically so gowes to top of tree

In the numbers that follow, find the first and last entries in the tree that is shown (on its side, as discussed in lecture).

A3. Is the first number always the first line to be shown in such a display?
		No- the first (smallest) number will be the first line -- the most left of the tree
A4. Is the last number always the last line to be shown?
		N0- the last (largest) number will be the first line -- the most right of  the tree
		
A5. Why do we need addHelper?
		It compares the nodes to their parents to determine which is larger.
A6. Why is it private instead of public?
		Because we want add helper to be only accessible by add
A7. Does the code actually remove the node containing the value to be removed? If not, what is actually happening?
		 No- it assigns null, or it picks the correct child to put where node used to be referenced

A8. Why does the code fail to execute properly?
		Because colors aren't comparable values - unless you were to assign colors a value or "percentage" of color
		
A9. Why does eclipse not report a problem when you try to create a BST of type Color?
		You can instantiate the BST of type color, but the operations used on a BST are what cause the error.

Part B


SortedSetUsingBST (random input)

B1. What behavior do you see in the output? You will likely have to rely on ticks rather than time, because the times are so fast.
		No random set applicable from studio website-- i think there may haveb ene an error
B2. What behavior did you expect to see, and why?


SortedSetUsingBST (sorted input)

B3. What behavior do you see in the output given the sorted input?
		It looks relatively linear.
B4. What behavior did you expect to see, and why?
		We expected n because you are just inserting value that are already sorted- takes O(n) time. 
		
SortedSetUsingUnorderedList

B5. What behavior do you see in the output when a sorted set is implemented by an unordered list? Adding to the list should be quick, so why are we seeing these times?
		It looks like quadratic behavior
B6. What behavior did you expect to see, and why?
		We expected nlog(n) behavior because BST takes o(log(n)) for n values.









